classes/class_shader.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/Shader.xml.

.. _class_Shader:

Shader
======

**Inherits:** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

**Inherited By:** :ref:`VisualShader<class_VisualShader>`

A shader implemented in the Godot shading language.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

A custom shader program implemented in the Godot shading language, saved with the ``.gdshader`` extension.

This class is used by a :ref:`ShaderMaterial<class_ShaderMaterial>` and allows you to write your own custom behavior for rendering visual items or updating particle information. For a detailed explanation and usage, please see the tutorials linked below.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Shaders documentation index <../tutorials/shaders/index>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------+--------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`code<class_Shader_property_code>` | ``""`` |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------+--------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Texture<class_Texture>` | :ref:`get_default_texture_parameter<class_Shader_method_get_default_texture_parameter>`\ (\ name\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, index\: :ref:`int<class_int>` = 0\ ) |const|                                  |
   +-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Mode<enum_Shader_Mode>` | :ref:`get_mode<class_Shader_method_get_mode>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                                                                           |
   +-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Array<class_Array>`     | :ref:`get_shader_uniform_list<class_Shader_method_get_shader_uniform_list>`\ (\ get_groups\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ )                                                                                       |
   +-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                        | :ref:`set_default_texture_parameter<class_Shader_method_set_default_texture_parameter>`\ (\ name\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, texture\: :ref:`Texture<class_Texture>`, index\: :ref:`int<class_int>` = 0\ ) |
   +-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Enumerations
------------

.. _enum_Shader_Mode:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **Mode**: :ref:`🔗<enum_Shader_Mode>`

.. _class_Shader_constant_MODE_SPATIAL:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`Mode<enum_Shader_Mode>` **MODE_SPATIAL** = ``0``

Mode used to draw all 3D objects.

.. _class_Shader_constant_MODE_CANVAS_ITEM:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`Mode<enum_Shader_Mode>` **MODE_CANVAS_ITEM** = ``1``

Mode used to draw all 2D objects.

.. _class_Shader_constant_MODE_PARTICLES:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`Mode<enum_Shader_Mode>` **MODE_PARTICLES** = ``2``

Mode used to calculate particle information on a per-particle basis. Not used for drawing.

.. _class_Shader_constant_MODE_SKY:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`Mode<enum_Shader_Mode>` **MODE_SKY** = ``3``

Mode used for drawing skies. Only works with shaders attached to :ref:`Sky<class_Sky>` objects.

.. _class_Shader_constant_MODE_FOG:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`Mode<enum_Shader_Mode>` **MODE_FOG** = ``4``

Mode used for setting the color and density of volumetric fog effect.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_Shader_property_code:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **code** = ``""`` :ref:`🔗<class_Shader_property_code>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_code**\ (\ value\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ )
- :ref:`String<class_String>` **get_code**\ (\ )

Returns the shader's code as the user has written it, not the full generated code used internally.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_Shader_method_get_default_texture_parameter:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Texture<class_Texture>` **get_default_texture_parameter**\ (\ name\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, index\: :ref:`int<class_int>` = 0\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_Shader_method_get_default_texture_parameter>`

Returns the texture that is set as default for the specified parameter.

\ **Note:** ``name`` must match the name of the uniform in the code exactly.

\ **Note:** If the sampler array is used use ``index`` to access the specified texture.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Shader_method_get_mode:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Mode<enum_Shader_Mode>` **get_mode**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_Shader_method_get_mode>`

Returns the shader mode for the shader.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Shader_method_get_shader_uniform_list:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Array<class_Array>` **get_shader_uniform_list**\ (\ get_groups\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_Shader_method_get_shader_uniform_list>`

Get the list of shader uniforms that can be assigned to a :ref:`ShaderMaterial<class_ShaderMaterial>`, for use with :ref:`ShaderMaterial.set_shader_parameter<class_ShaderMaterial_method_set_shader_parameter>` and :ref:`ShaderMaterial.get_shader_parameter<class_ShaderMaterial_method_get_shader_parameter>`. The parameters returned are contained in dictionaries in a similar format to the ones returned by :ref:`Object.get_property_list<class_Object_method_get_property_list>`.

If argument ``get_groups`` is true, parameter grouping hints will be provided.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Shader_method_set_default_texture_parameter:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **set_default_texture_parameter**\ (\ name\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, texture\: :ref:`Texture<class_Texture>`, index\: :ref:`int<class_int>` = 0\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_Shader_method_set_default_texture_parameter>`

Sets the default texture to be used with a texture uniform. The default is used if a texture is not set in the :ref:`ShaderMaterial<class_ShaderMaterial>`.

\ **Note:** ``name`` must match the name of the uniform in the code exactly.

\ **Note:** If the sampler array is used use ``index`` to access the specified texture.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (6c05ec3)

classes/class_shader.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/Shader.xml.

.. _class_Shader:

Shader
======

**Inherits:** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

**Inherited By:** :ref:`VisualShader<class_VisualShader>`

A shader implemented in the Godot shading language.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

A custom shader program implemented in the Godot shading language, saved with the ``.gdshader`` extension.

This class is used by a :ref:`ShaderMaterial<class_ShaderMaterial>` and allows you to write your own custom behavior for rendering visual items or updating particle information. For a detailed explanation and usage, please see the tutorials linked below.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Shaders documentation index <../tutorials/shaders/index>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------+--------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`code<class_Shader_property_code>` | ``""`` |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------+--------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Texture<class_Texture>` | :ref:`get_default_texture_parameter<class_Shader_method_get_default_texture_parameter>`\ (\ name\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, index\: :ref:`int<class_int>` = 0\ ) |const|                                  |
   +-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Mode<enum_Shader_Mode>` | :ref:`get_mode<class_Shader_method_get_mode>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                                                                           |
   +-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Array<class_Array>`     | :ref:`get_shader_uniform_list<class_Shader_method_get_shader_uniform_list>`\ (\ get_groups\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ )                                                                                       |
   +-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                        | :ref:`inspect_native_shader_code<class_Shader_method_inspect_native_shader_code>`\ (\ )                                                                                                                               |
   +-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                        | :ref:`set_default_texture_parameter<class_Shader_method_set_default_texture_parameter>`\ (\ name\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, texture\: :ref:`Texture<class_Texture>`, index\: :ref:`int<class_int>` = 0\ ) |
   +-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Enumerations
------------

.. _enum_Shader_Mode:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **Mode**: :ref:`🔗<enum_Shader_Mode>`

.. _class_Shader_constant_MODE_SPATIAL:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`Mode<enum_Shader_Mode>` **MODE_SPATIAL** = ``0``

Mode used to draw all 3D objects.

.. _class_Shader_constant_MODE_CANVAS_ITEM:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`Mode<enum_Shader_Mode>` **MODE_CANVAS_ITEM** = ``1``

Mode used to draw all 2D objects.

.. _class_Shader_constant_MODE_PARTICLES:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`Mode<enum_Shader_Mode>` **MODE_PARTICLES** = ``2``

Mode used to calculate particle information on a per-particle basis. Not used for drawing.

.. _class_Shader_constant_MODE_SKY:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`Mode<enum_Shader_Mode>` **MODE_SKY** = ``3``

Mode used for drawing skies. Only works with shaders attached to :ref:`Sky<class_Sky>` objects.

.. _class_Shader_constant_MODE_FOG:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`Mode<enum_Shader_Mode>` **MODE_FOG** = ``4``

Mode used for setting the color and density of volumetric fog effect.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_Shader_property_code:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **code** = ``""`` :ref:`🔗<class_Shader_property_code>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_code**\ (\ value\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ )
- :ref:`String<class_String>` **get_code**\ (\ )

Returns the shader's code as the user has written it, not the full generated code used internally.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_Shader_method_get_default_texture_parameter:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Texture<class_Texture>` **get_default_texture_parameter**\ (\ name\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, index\: :ref:`int<class_int>` = 0\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_Shader_method_get_default_texture_parameter>`

Returns the texture that is set as default for the specified parameter.

\ **Note:** ``name`` must match the name of the uniform in the code exactly.

\ **Note:** If the sampler array is used use ``index`` to access the specified texture.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Shader_method_get_mode:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Mode<enum_Shader_Mode>` **get_mode**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_Shader_method_get_mode>`

Returns the shader mode for the shader.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Shader_method_get_shader_uniform_list:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Array<class_Array>` **get_shader_uniform_list**\ (\ get_groups\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_Shader_method_get_shader_uniform_list>`

Returns the list of shader uniforms that can be assigned to a :ref:`ShaderMaterial<class_ShaderMaterial>`, for use with :ref:`ShaderMaterial.set_shader_parameter<class_ShaderMaterial_method_set_shader_parameter>` and :ref:`ShaderMaterial.get_shader_parameter<class_ShaderMaterial_method_get_shader_parameter>`. The parameters returned are contained in dictionaries in a similar format to the ones returned by :ref:`Object.get_property_list<class_Object_method_get_property_list>`.

If argument ``get_groups`` is ``true``, parameter grouping hints are also included in the list.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Shader_method_inspect_native_shader_code:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **inspect_native_shader_code**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_Shader_method_inspect_native_shader_code>`

Only available when running in the editor. Opens a popup that visualizes the generated shader code, including all variants and internal shader code. See also :ref:`Material.inspect_native_shader_code<class_Material_method_inspect_native_shader_code>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Shader_method_set_default_texture_parameter:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **set_default_texture_parameter**\ (\ name\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, texture\: :ref:`Texture<class_Texture>`, index\: :ref:`int<class_int>` = 0\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_Shader_method_set_default_texture_parameter>`

Sets the default texture to be used with a texture uniform. The default is used if a texture is not set in the :ref:`ShaderMaterial<class_ShaderMaterial>`.

\ **Note:** ``name`` must match the name of the uniform in the code exactly.

\ **Note:** If the sampler array is used use ``index`` to access the specified texture.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
